v1.14: New `filterableAttributes` format (#3207)
meilisearch/documentation: reference/api/settings.mdx

## Filterable attributes

Attributes in the `filterableAttributes` list can be used as [filters](/learn/filtering_and_sorting/filter_search_results) or [facets](/learn/filtering_and_sorting/search_with_facet_filters).

<Capsule intent="warning">
Updating filterable attributes will re-index all documents in the index, which can take some time. To reduce RAM consumption, first update your index settings and then add documents.
</Capsule>

### Filterable attribute object

`filterableAttributes` may be an array of either strings filterable attribute objects.

Filterable attribute objects must contain the following fields:

| Name                    | Type             | Default value | Description                                              |
| ----------------------- | ---------------- | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`attributePatterns`** | Array of strings | `[]`          | A list of strings indicating filterable fields                      |

> | **`features`**          | Object           | `{}`          | A list outlining filter types enabled for the specified attributes                      |

Reviewer: This field is optional and will be set as the following default value for all the matching fields:
```json
        "features": {
          "facetSearch": false,
          "filters": {
            "equality": true,
            "comparison": false
          }
        }
```

#### `attributePatterns`

> Attribute patterns may begin or end with a * wildcard to match multiple fields: `customer_*`, `attribute*`.

Reviewer: for your information It works the same as the `attributePatterns` in the `localizedAttributes`

> You may also set attributePatterns to *. In this case Meilisearch will treat all fields as filterable.

Reviewer: We may want to discourage this, this would imply unnecessary indexing time and disk consumption.

#### `features`

`features` allows you to decide which filter features are allowed for the specified attributes. It accepts the following fields:

- `facetSearch`: Whether facet search should be enabled for the specified attributes. Boolean, defaults to `false` 
- `filter`: A list outlining the filter types for the specified attributes. Must be an object and accepts the following fields:

>   - `equality`: Enables `=`, `!=`, `IN`, `EXISTS`, `NOT`, `AND`, and `OR`. Boolean, defaults to `true`
>   - `comparison`: Enables `>`, `>=`, `<`, `<=`, `TO`, `EXISTS`, `NOT`, `AND`, and `OR`. Boolean, defaults to `false`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `equality`: Enables `=`, `!=`, `IN`, `EXISTS`, `IS NULL`, `IS EMPTY`, `NOT`, `AND`, and `OR`. Boolean, defaults to `true`
  - `comparison`: Enables `>`, `>=`, `<`, `<=`, `TO`, `EXISTS`, `IS NULL`, `IS EMPTY`, `NOT`, `AND`, and `OR`. Boolean, defaults to `false`
```

I don't know if you want to add them

Calculating `comparison` filters is a resource-intensive operation. Disabling them may lead to better search and indexing performance. `equality` filters use fewer resources and have limited impact on performance.

<Capsule intent="warning" title="_geo field and filter features">

> If set as a filterable attribute, `_geo` automatically activates all search features. Meilisearch will throw an error if you try to disable any `features` for a `_geo` field.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
If set as a filterable attribute, `_geo` automatically activates all geo-filtering features. The `_geo` filterable attribute doesn't interact with the `features` object and will not be matched by any `attributePatterns` like `_*`, prefer using the simple string definition for this specific case as:

```
[
  {
    "attributePatterns": [<String>, …],
    "features": { <...> }
  },
  "_geo"
]
```

This will work even in the middle of pattern definitions.
````

We don't trigger any error for `_geo`

> </Capsule>

Reviewer: I don't know if it valuable but `_vector` can't match any pattern as well
